Analysis of geotagged tweets of US election 2016

This notebook contains a project that analyzed 670.000 tweets from the run up to the US election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. The tweets were from 12 august to 12 october 2016. Within this project an analysis was done what the overall sentiment was of posts that reacted to Trump, Clinton and both candidates. The sentiment criteria were rather along the lines of ''positive'' or ''negative''. The dataset for training the Naive bayes classifier was one for airplane reviews. Before any training takes place, odd characters are removed and everything is lower cased. Lemmatization was used to reduce words to their standard form. The end result is the positivity scores of Trump, Hillary and both candidates. The sentiment was overall negative. This was visualized in 3 maps (Hillary, Trump and both candidates). Red on this map means more negative, and blue more positive (but everything is red since the sentiment was very negative overall). A last map was added that displayed were the sentiment regarding one candidate was more negative than the other and coloured red and blue respective to the party colours.

In the second part of this notebook a topic analysis is done. The goal here is to determine how much different topics are discussed and secondly to see what is roughly discussed in these topics. The results of this are visualized and clickable. 3 topics per candidate were determined to be optimal, based on self testing and coherence score from the LDA algorithm. Before anything took place characters were lower cased, the text was lemmetized.

Results of the 3 topics for Trump's positive responses indicate one about overall positivity about winning the election, news stations and the weather. The negative topics would be about taxes, lying and political opponents to Trump. For Hillary the positive topics would consist of her party slogan, news stations and political allies. The negative topics are themed around calling Clinton a liar, about her political past and about political opponents attacking her campaign.

Data is available here: 
https://onedrive.live.com/?id=DF3D4CFD086B9DF1%21228&cid=DF3D4CFD086B9DF1
